# Data-Analysis-on-Bank-Marketing-Data-set
                                        Clustering and Classification
                                                  Intro:
Tele-marketing was first initiated to make customers familiar with the products/ services a firm is offering and to get the customers to purchase that product/ service. This lead to help the firm in banking sector to grow their customer count by establishing interest in them with some attractive deals which couldn’t be refused. This led the banks to step into marketing to customers about their term deposits. 
This project considers real data from a Tele-Marketing campaign that was done by Portuguese bank from May 2008 – November 2010, this data has been has been extracted from UCI Machine Learning Repository. From that source we extracted two data sets namely “bank-additional-full.csv”,” bank-additional.csv” where the first file is consisting of 41188 records and 21 inputs which we have chosen for training of the data, whereas the second one is consisting of 4119 and 21 inputs is been chosen for testing of the data. 


                                                    OBJECTIVE:
•	Our objective in this project is to predict if a customer subscribes to a term deposits or not by understanding the different features and performing predictive analytics. Can check out code in Bank_additional.R

•	Performing customer segmentation by using clustering techniques to gain valuable insights from the clusters which will be very helpful for organizations in their further campaigns. Can check out code in Clusters_customer_patterns.R


                                                    METHODOLOGY:
This project mainly utilizes ‘Classification’ techniques to examine a data set related to marketing campaigns of a Portuguese bank. The goal of this project is to predict whether a client subscribes to a term-deposit, segmenting the customers into different clusters and find some valuable insights which will be helpful for future campaigns. To achieve these goal we analyze initial data set and performing preprocessing and cleaning the data set, Exploratory data analysis also has been used to visualize the dataset of Explanatory variables and Cross-Tabulation of the metadata categories to determine the distribution of previous Term Deposit acceptance. By above analysis we got to know whether dataset is linear or not, whether it is skewed or not. This analysis helped us in choosing efficient predictive machine learning algorithm. Next step was Correlation of features here we found some features are strongly correlated which says that they are strongly directly proportional so which helped us to remove the extra features in feature selection. Feature selection was also done after the first training of our model. Next step was feature engineering where we transformed the data such as categorical data to numerical and then to factoring. The new data set which has been formed was used in machine learning algorithm. Next step was we tuned the algorithm till an efficient stage where it has given its best accuracy. Then we used this model on our test data set and validated it.
                      For our-another goal of customer segmentation we have choosed clustering algorithm based on size of data set and characteristic type of features. Next step we have used the distance metric to handle mixed data types. Here we have used Gower distance metric and transformed our data. Then we decided the number of clusters it need to have by silhouette width internal validation metric. Then we visualized the clusters and tried to find insights from it.

